.TH MURMUR3SUM 1 "October 2022" "murmur3sum 1.x" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
murmur3sum \- Compute or verify the murmur3 hash of files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B murmur3sum
[\fI\-\-OPTION\fR] [--] [<file1> <file2> ... <fileN>] [> <checksum-file>]
.PP
.B murmur3sum --check
[\fI\-\-OPTION\fR] [<checksum-file>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmurmur3sum(1)\fR tool is similar to the \fBmd5sum(1)\fR tool. It
reads files and computes a hash based on the Murmur3 hashing scheme.

Without the --check (or -c) option, the specified files are read and their
hash computed and printed to stdout following the md5sum format:

    00000000000000000000000000000000  some/file/name.here

where the 0's are replaced by the hash and the "some/file/name.here" is
the path as specified on the command line.

The special "-" filename represents standard input. If no filename is
specified, then the tool automatically uses "-". In other words, you can
pipe data through this tool like so:

    cat file | murmur3sum --no-filename

The --no-filename is probably a good idea in this case, otherwise it uses
"-" as the filename which doesn't mean much.

.SH "VERIFY FILES"
The tool can be used to verify a set of files.

First, you create a checksum file like so:

    murmur3sum "file1" "file2" ... "fileN" > checksums.murmur3

Later, you can verify that the files have not changed as follow:

    murmur3sum --check checksums.murmur3

The tool makes use of the hashes and filenames found inside the
checksums.murmur3 file to verify the current hashes of the files on disk.
If they changed, an error is emitted. If they are equal, it shows the filename
followed by "OK" (which you can --quiet if you do not need to see the results).

In a script, you can use the "if" instruction like so:

    if ! murmur3sum --quiet --check checksums.murmur3
    then
        # detected an error
.br
	   ...handle error...
    fi

.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
The following describes all the supported command line options. The
special "--" \fIoption\fR is used to stop the parsing of options and
forcibly view all the remaining command line arguments as filenames.

.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB--binary\fR
Read the input files in binary. This is always the case. We do not support
a text mode.

.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB--check\fR
Check the hash of files as saved in a text which is read by \fBmurmur3sum(1)\fR.
Each line is expected to be defined as above (hash, two spaces, the filename).
It verifies that the hash is a valid string of hexadecimal digits. If so, it
uses the filename to read the file and compute its hash. If that computed
hash is equal to the hash found in the checksum file, then the filename is
written in stdout followed by "OK". Otherwise an error is printed. If one
or more errors occur, then the tool exits with 1.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print a brief document about the tool usage, then exit.

.TP
\fB\-\-basename\fR
Output the basename of each file instead of their complete path. This can be
useful for files being installed in a known location later.

.TP
\fB\-\-license\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Display the version and license information of the murmur3sum tool.

.TP
\fB\-\-no-filename\fR
Only output the hash. This is particularly useful when computing a hash
for one file only and the filename is really not required in the output.

.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-text\fR
This command line option is ignored. We always read the files in binary.

.TP
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
Do not display the "filename: OK" message when checking files.

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alexis Wilke <alexis@m2osw.com>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <https://github.com/m2osw/murmur3/issues>.
.br
iplock home page: <https://snapwebsites.org/project/murmur3>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2022-2025  Made to Order Software Corp.  All Rights Reserved
.br
License: GPLv3
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR md5sum (1)
